.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This man page is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)basename.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd May 24, 2021
.Dt BASENAME 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm basename
.Nd return filename portion of pathname
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar string
.Op Ar suffix
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl s Ar suffix
.Op Fl z
.Ar string
.Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility deletes any prefix ending with the last slash character
('/' under Unix-like Operating Systems
or '\\' under Windows operating Systems)
present in
.Ar string
(after first stripping trailing slashes),
and a
.Ar suffix ,
if given.
The
.Ar suffix
is not stripped if it is identical to the remaining characters in
.Ar string .
The resulting filename is written to the standard output.
A non-existent suffix is ignored.
If
.Fl a
is specified, then every argument is treated as a
.Ar string
as if
.Nm
were invoked with just one argument.
If
.Fl s
is specified, then the
.Ar suffix
is taken as its argument, and all other arguments are treated as a
.Ar string .
.Ss OPTIONS
.Op Fl a|--multiple
Support multiple arguments and treat each as a name
.Pp
.Op Fl d|--debug
Enable debug mode
.Pp
.Op Fl h|--help|-?
Print usage and this help message and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl s|--suffix Ar SUFFIX
Remove trailing SUFFIX. Implies -a
.Pp
.Op Fl v|--version
Print version and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl z|--zero
End each output line with NUL, not newline
.Pp
.Op Fl -
Options processing terminator
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
As the original
.Fx
.Nm
command, this version does not take
the
.Ev POSIXLY_CORRECT
environment variable into account.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std basename
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dirname 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr basename 3 ,
.Xr dirname 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is expected to be
.St -p1003.2
compatible.
.Pp
This version is fully compatible with the
.Fx
version (apart from the invalid option error message).
It also implements the GNU coreutils version specific options.
.Pp
It tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
To be tested under Windows...
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in
.Bx 4.4 .
.Pp
This version was made for 
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU [The PNU project / PyNIX]
in order to test
the b2bt command.
.Sh LICENSE
This utility is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
This version was written by
.An "Hubert Tournier".
.Pp
The man page is derived from the
.Fx
project's one.
