.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993, 1994
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)basename.1	8.2 (Berkeley) 4/18/94
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd June 4, 2021
.Dt DIRNAME 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dirname
.Nd return directory portion of pathname
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm dirname
.Ar string
.Op Ar ...
.Nm dirname
.Op Fl z
.Ar string
.Op Ar ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm dirname
utility deletes the filename portion, beginning
with the last slash
.Ql \&/
character to the end of
.Ar string
(after first stripping trailing slashes),
and writes the result to the standard output.
.Ss OPTIONS
.Op Fl z|--zero
End each output line with NUL, not newline
.Pp
.Op Fl -debug
Enable debug mode
.Pp
.Op Fl -help|-?
Print usage and this help message and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl -version
Print version and exit
.Pp
.Op Fl -
Options processing terminator
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Contrary to the original
.Fx
.Nm
command, this version takes the
.Ev POSIXLY_CORRECT
environment variable into account,
disabling all the command's options except the options terminator (--).
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std dirname
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr basename 1 ,
.Xr csh 1 ,
.Xr sh 1 ,
.Xr dirname 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is expected to be
.St -p1003.2
compatible.
.Pp
This version is fully compatible with the
.Fx
version (apart from the help and error message).
It also implements the GNU coreutils version specific options
(
.Fl z
.Fl -zero
).
.Pp
It tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
Tested OK under Windows (though with backslashes instead os slashes, of course).
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared in
.Bx 4.4 .
.Pp
This version was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU [PNU project]
in order to test
the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/b2bt [b2bt]
command.
.Sh LICENSE
This utility is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
This version was written by
.An "Hubert Tournier".
.Pp
The man page is derived from the
.Fx
project's one.
